Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/audio-fwrite.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _audio_fwrite:

=================
DVB audio write()
=================

Name
----

DVB audio write()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: size_t write(int fd, const void *buf, size_t count)


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  void \*buf

       -  Pointer to the buffer containing the PES data.

    -  .. row 3

       -  size_t count

       -  Size of buf.


Description
-----------

This system call can only be used if AUDIO_SOURCE_MEMORY is selected
in the ioctl call AUDIO_SELECT_SOURCE. The data provided shall be in
PES format. If O_NONBLOCK is not specified the function will block
until buffer space is available. The amount of data to be transferred is
implied by count.


Return Value
------------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EPERM``

       -  Mode AUDIO_SOURCE_MEMORY not selected.

    -  .. row 2

       -  ``ENOMEM``

       -  Attempted to write more data than the internal buffer can hold.

    -  .. row 3

       -  ``EBADF``

       -  fd is not a valid open file descriptor.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/audio-fwrite.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _audio_fwrite:

=================
DVB audio write()
=================

Name
----

DVB audio write()

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: size_t write(int fd, const void *buf, size_t count)
    :name: dvb-audio-write


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  void \*buf

       -  Pointer to the buffer containing the PES data.

    -  .. row 3

       -  size_t count

       -  Size of buf.


Description
-----------

This system call can only be used if AUDIO_SOURCE_MEMORY is selected
in the ioctl call AUDIO_SELECT_SOURCE. The data provided shall be in
PES format. If O_NONBLOCK is not specified the function will block
until buffer space is available. The amount of data to be transferred is
implied by count.


Return Value
------------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EPERM``

       -  Mode AUDIO_SOURCE_MEMORY not selected.

    -  .. row 2

       -  ``ENOMEM``

       -  Attempted to write more data than the internal buffer can hold.

    -  .. row 3

       -  ``EBADF``

       -  fd is not a valid open file descriptor.
