Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/dmx-fopen.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _dmx_fopen:

================
DVB demux open()
================

Name
----

DVB demux open()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int open(const char *deviceName, int flags)
    :name: dvb-dmx-open

Arguments
---------

``name``
  Name of specific DVB demux device.

``flags``
  A bit-wise OR of the following flags:

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    -
       - O_RDONLY
       - read-only access

    -
       - O_RDWR
       - read/write access

    -
       - O_NONBLOCK
       - open in non-blocking mode
         (blocking mode is the default)


Description
-----------

This system call, used with a device name of /dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0,
allocates a new filter and returns a handle which can be used for
subsequent control of that filter. This call has to be made for each
filter to be used, i.e. every returned file descriptor is a reference to
a single filter. /dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0 is a logical device to be used
for retrieving Transport Streams for digital video recording. When
reading from this device a transport stream containing the packets from
all PES filters set in the corresponding demux device
(/dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0) having the output set to DMX_OUT_TS_TAP. A
recorded Transport Stream is replayed by writing to this device.

The significance of blocking or non-blocking mode is described in the
documentation for functions where there is a difference. It does not
affect the semantics of the open() call itself. A device opened in
blocking mode can later be put into non-blocking mode (and vice versa)
using the F_SETFL command of the fcntl system call.


Return Value
------------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``ENODEV``

       -  Device driver not loaded/available.

    -  .. row 2

       -  ``EINVAL``

       -  Invalid argument.

    -  .. row 3

       -  ``EMFILE``

       -  “Too many open files”, i.e. no more filters available.

    -  .. row 4

       -  ``ENOMEM``

       -  The driver failed to allocate enough memory.

Commit message:

media: dvb uAPI docs: adjust return value ioctl descriptions
There are several issues on the return value for ioctls:

- Text is confusing;
- Some error codes don't exist;
- The non-generic error codes should come before the text
  that points to the generic error codes;
- Tables don't contain column size hints;
- Some references are not marked as such.

Correct them.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/dmx-fopen.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _dmx_fopen:

================
DVB demux open()
================

Name
----

DVB demux open()


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int open(const char *deviceName, int flags)
    :name: dvb-dmx-open

Arguments
---------

``name``
  Name of specific DVB demux device.

``flags``
  A bit-wise OR of the following flags:

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0

    -
       - O_RDONLY
       - read-only access

    -
       - O_RDWR
       - read/write access

    -
       - O_NONBLOCK
       - open in non-blocking mode
         (blocking mode is the default)


Description
-----------

This system call, used with a device name of /dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0,
allocates a new filter and returns a handle which can be used for
subsequent control of that filter. This call has to be made for each
filter to be used, i.e. every returned file descriptor is a reference to
a single filter. /dev/dvb/adapter0/dvr0 is a logical device to be used
for retrieving Transport Streams for digital video recording. When
reading from this device a transport stream containing the packets from
all PES filters set in the corresponding demux device
(/dev/dvb/adapter0/demux0) having the output set to DMX_OUT_TS_TAP. A
recorded Transport Stream is replayed by writing to this device.

The significance of blocking or non-blocking mode is described in the
documentation for functions where there is a difference. It does not
affect the semantics of the open() call itself. A device opened in
blocking mode can later be put into non-blocking mode (and vice versa)
using the F_SETFL command of the fcntl system call.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned.

On error -1 is returned, and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately.

.. tabularcolumns:: |p{2.5cm}|p{15.0cm}|

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0
    :widths: 1 16

    -  -  ``EMFILE``
       -  “Too many open files”, i.e. no more filters available.

The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
