Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/fe-read-uncorrected-blocks.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS:

**************************
FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS
**************************

Name
====

FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS


Synopsis
========

.. c:function:: int ioctl( int fd, int request =FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS, uint32_t *ublocks)


Arguments
=========

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals
	  :ref:`FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS`
	  for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  uint32_t \*ublocks

       -  The total number of uncorrected blocks seen by the driver so far.


Description
===========

This ioctl call returns the number of uncorrected blocks detected by the
device driver during its lifetime. For meaningful measurements, the
increment in block count during a specific time interval should be
calculated. For this command, read-only access to the device is
sufficient.


Return Value
============

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/fe-read-uncorrected-blocks.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS:

**************************
FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS
**************************

Name
====

FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
========

.. c:function:: int ioctl( int fd, FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS, uint32_t *ublocks)
    :name: FE_READ_UNCORRECTED_BLOCKS


Arguments
=========

``fd``
    File descriptor returned by :c:func:`open() <dvb-fe-open>`.

``ublocks``
    The total number of uncorrected blocks seen by the driver so far.


Description
===========

This ioctl call returns the number of uncorrected blocks detected by the
device driver during its lifetime. For meaningful measurements, the
increment in block count during a specific time interval should be
calculated. For this command, read-only access to the device is
sufficient.


Return Value
============

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
