Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/fe-set-frontend.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _FE_SET_FRONTEND:

***************
FE_SET_FRONTEND
***************

Name
====

FE_SET_FRONTEND


Synopsis
========

.. c:function:: int ioctl(int fd, int request = FE_SET_FRONTEND, struct dvb_frontend_parameters *p)


Arguments
=========

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals :ref:`FE_SET_FRONTEND` for this
	  command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  struct dvb_frontend_parameters \*p

       -  Points to parameters for tuning operation.


Description
===========

This ioctl call starts a tuning operation using specified parameters.
The result of this call will be successful if the parameters were valid
and the tuning could be initiated. The result of the tuning operation in
itself, however, will arrive asynchronously as an event (see
documentation for :ref:`FE_GET_EVENT` and
FrontendEvent.) If a new :ref:`FE_SET_FRONTEND`
operation is initiated before the previous one was completed, the
previous operation will be aborted in favor of the new one. This command
requires read/write access to the device.


Return Value
============

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EINVAL``

       -  Maximum supported symbol rate reached.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/fe-set-frontend.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _FE_SET_FRONTEND:

***************
FE_SET_FRONTEND
***************

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Name
====

FE_SET_FRONTEND


Synopsis
========

.. c:function:: int ioctl(int fd, FE_SET_FRONTEND, struct dvb_frontend_parameters *p)
    :name: FE_SET_FRONTEND


Arguments
=========

``fd``
    File descriptor returned by :c:func:`open() <dvb-fe-open>`.

``p``
    Points to parameters for tuning operation.


Description
===========

This ioctl call starts a tuning operation using specified parameters.
The result of this call will be successful if the parameters were valid
and the tuning could be initiated. The result of the tuning operation in
itself, however, will arrive asynchronously as an event (see
documentation for :ref:`FE_GET_EVENT` and
FrontendEvent.) If a new :ref:`FE_SET_FRONTEND`
operation is initiated before the previous one was completed, the
previous operation will be aborted in favor of the new one. This command
requires read/write access to the device.


Return Value
============

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EINVAL``

       -  Maximum supported symbol rate reached.
