Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-set-attributes.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTES:

====================
VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTES
====================

Name
----

VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTES


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, int request = VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTE ,video_attributes_t vattr)


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTE for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  video_attributes_t vattr

       -  video attributes according to section ??.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is intended for DVD playback and allows you to set certain
information about the stream. Some hardware may not need this
information, but the call also tells the hardware to prepare for DVD
playback.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.



.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EINVAL``

       -  input is not a valid attribute setting.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-set-attributes.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTES:

====================
VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTES
====================

Name
----

VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTES

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTE ,video_attributes_t vattr)
    :name: VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTE


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_SET_ATTRIBUTE for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  video_attributes_t vattr

       -  video attributes according to section ??.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is intended for DVD playback and allows you to set certain
information about the stream. Some hardware may not need this
information, but the call also tells the hardware to prepare for DVD
playback.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.



.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  ``EINVAL``

       -  input is not a valid attribute setting.
