Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-stop.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_STOP:

==========
VIDEO_STOP
==========

Name
----

VIDEO_STOP


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, int request = VIDEO_STOP, boolean mode)


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_STOP for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  Boolean mode

       -  Indicates how the screen shall be handled.

    -  .. row 4

       -
       -  TRUE: Blank screen when stop.

    -  .. row 5

       -
       -  FALSE: Show last decoded frame.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is for DVB devices only. To control a V4L2 decoder use the
V4L2 :ref:`VIDIOC_DECODER_CMD` instead.

This ioctl call asks the Video Device to stop playing the current
stream. Depending on the input parameter, the screen can be blanked out
or displaying the last decoded frame.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-stop.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_STOP:

==========
VIDEO_STOP
==========

Name
----

VIDEO_STOP

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_STOP, boolean mode)
    :name: VIDEO_STOP


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_STOP for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  Boolean mode

       -  Indicates how the screen shall be handled.

    -  .. row 4

       -
       -  TRUE: Blank screen when stop.

    -  .. row 5

       -
       -  FALSE: Show last decoded frame.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is for DVB devices only. To control a V4L2 decoder use the
V4L2 :ref:`VIDIOC_DECODER_CMD` instead.

This ioctl call asks the Video Device to stop playing the current
stream. Depending on the input parameter, the screen can be blanked out
or displaying the last decoded frame.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
