Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-get-capabilities.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES:

======================
VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES
======================

Name
----

VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, int request = VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES, unsigned int *cap)


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  unsigned int \*cap

       -  Pointer to a location where to store the capability information.


Description
-----------

This ioctl call asks the video device about its decoding capabilities.
On success it returns and integer which has bits set according to the
defines in section ??.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-get-capabilities.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES:

======================
VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES
======================

Name
----

VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES, unsigned int *cap)
    :name: VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_GET_CAPABILITIES for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  unsigned int \*cap

       -  Pointer to a location where to store the capability information.


Description
-----------

This ioctl call asks the video device about its decoding capabilities.
On success it returns and integer which has bits set according to the
defines in section ??.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
