Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-freeze.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_FREEZE:

============
VIDEO_FREEZE
============

Name
----

VIDEO_FREEZE


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, int request = VIDEO_FREEZE)


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_FREEZE for this command.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is for DVB devices only. To control a V4L2 decoder use the
V4L2 :ref:`VIDIOC_DECODER_CMD` instead.

This ioctl call suspends the live video stream being played. Decoding
and playing are frozen. It is then possible to restart the decoding and
playing process of the video stream using the VIDEO_CONTINUE command.
If VIDEO_SOURCE_MEMORY is selected in the ioctl call
VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE, the DVB subsystem will not decode any more data
until the ioctl call VIDEO_CONTINUE or VIDEO_PLAY is performed.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-freeze.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_FREEZE:

============
VIDEO_FREEZE
============

Name
----

VIDEO_FREEZE

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_FREEZE)
    :name: VIDEO_FREEZE


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_FREEZE for this command.


Description
-----------

This ioctl is for DVB devices only. To control a V4L2 decoder use the
V4L2 :ref:`VIDIOC_DECODER_CMD` instead.

This ioctl call suspends the live video stream being played. Decoding
and playing are frozen. It is then possible to restart the decoding and
playing process of the video stream using the VIDEO_CONTINUE command.
If VIDEO_SOURCE_MEMORY is selected in the ioctl call
VIDEO_SELECT_SOURCE, the DVB subsystem will not decode any more data
until the ioctl call VIDEO_CONTINUE or VIDEO_PLAY is performed.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
