Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-set-streamtype.rst, before:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE:

====================
VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE
====================

Name
----

VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE


Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, int request = VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE, int type)


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  int type

       -  stream type


Description
-----------

This ioctl tells the driver which kind of stream to expect being written
to it. If this call is not used the default of video PES is used. Some
drivers might not support this call and always expect PES.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.

Commit message:

[media] docs-rst: Convert DVB uAPI to use C function references
Name all ioctl references and make them match the ioctls that
are documented. That will improve the cross-reference index,
as it will have all ioctls and syscalls there.

While here, improve the documentation, marking the deprecated
ioctls, and making the non-deprecated ones more like the rest
of the media book.

Also, add a notice for ioctls that still require documentation.

Signed-off-by: Mauro Carvalho Chehab <mchehab@s-opensource.com>

Documentation/media/uapi/dvb/video-set-streamtype.rst, after:

.. -*- coding: utf-8; mode: rst -*-

.. _VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE:

====================
VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE
====================

Name
----

VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE

.. attention:: This ioctl is deprecated.

Synopsis
--------

.. c:function:: int ioctl(fd, VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE, int type)
    :name: VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE


Arguments
---------

.. flat-table::
    :header-rows:  0
    :stub-columns: 0


    -  .. row 1

       -  int fd

       -  File descriptor returned by a previous call to open().

    -  .. row 2

       -  int request

       -  Equals VIDEO_SET_STREAMTYPE for this command.

    -  .. row 3

       -  int type

       -  stream type


Description
-----------

This ioctl tells the driver which kind of stream to expect being written
to it. If this call is not used the default of video PES is used. Some
drivers might not support this call and always expect PES.


Return Value
------------

On success 0 is returned, on error -1 and the ``errno`` variable is set
appropriately. The generic error codes are described at the
:ref:`Generic Error Codes <gen-errors>` chapter.
